1. Memory, in which all processes see the same sequence of references is:

(a) Consistently strict

(b) Cohesive causation

(c) Consistently poor

(d) Sequentially coherent

2. Updating files by voting: for 10 servers it was assumed that 4 must give permission for the record. Therefore:

(a) writing quorum> 6

(b) reading quorum> 6
(c) reading quorum = 4

d) writing quorum = 6



3. Paging: window of the working set = 10. The working set is:

(a) A collection of pages to which the last 10 references relate
(b) 10 active processes

(c) 10 frames of a given process

(d) Generating processes> 10 page faults



4. The shortest average process wait time in the queue is provided by the algorithm:

(a) FCFS

(b) SJF

(c) SJF with expropriation
(d) Rotational



5. Hard disk: an algorithm is used to handle real-time requests

(a) EDF
(b) LOOK

(c) SSTF

(d) C-SCAN



6. In algae. distributed block detection, lock detection occurs when the process receives a message:

(a) With your own number in the "message creator" field 
(b) Out of date

(c) With your successor's number

(d) With the number of the resource it is waiting for



7. The occurrence of continuous page errors due to the replacement of pages to which there are frequent references are:

(a) Starving

(b) Misunderstanding

(c) Fragment

(d) Szamotanie

8. With RAM segmentation:

(a) Inflation of addresses

(b) Internal fragmentation

(c) External fragmentation
(d) Starving processes

9. Alg. Optimal removes the page:

(a) Earliest loaded

(b) Unused the longest

(c) Most used

(d) one that will not be used for the longest time

10. The Lamport algorithm provides:

(a) Consistency of RAM

(b) Set max. the yaw rate

(c) Organized time events 
(d) Detection of a blockade



11. In the approximated LRU, the reference bit is reset:

(a) When the page is loaded

(b) When deleting a page
(c) When searching for a page to delete 
(d) On the error of the page



12. When planning the processor allocation using the SJF method, the average process wait time is:

(a) is always optimal (the shortest) 
(b) is always the longest
(c) is equal to the time for the FIFO method of expropriation

(d) depends on the length of the quantum used



13. FCFS algorithm for scheduling the processor allocation:

(a) requires expropriation

(b) requires estimation of the processor phase length

(c) it is always non-collapsing
(d) has computational complexity O (n ^ 2)



14. In a given system, the average process wait time is 4 seconds, and new processes arrive at a rate of 12 processes / sec. Therefore, the average queue length of the waiting processes is:

(a) 48 processes
(b) 3 processes

(c) 0.33 of the process

(d) 18 processes



15. The SIGNALING operation on the S semaphone is defined as follows:

(a) S = 0

(b) S = 1

(c) while S <= 0 to nothing; S = S-1

(d) S = S + 1

16. The WAIT operation on the S semaphore is defined as follows:

(a) S = 0

(b) S = 1

(c) while S <= 0 to nothing; S = S-1
(d) S = S + 1



17. If there is a cycle in the resource allocation graph, then:

(a) there is definitely no blockade

(b) there is always a blockage

(c) there is a blockade with one resource 
(d) resources are multiple



18. The condition of the blockade is not:

(a) mutual inclusion

(b) detention (resources) and waiting (for resources)

(c) reproduction of resources
(d) no expropriation



19. The existence of unused memory within already allocated areas is:

(a) external fragmentation

(b) internal fragmentation 
(c) exchange

(d) deadlock



20. In the FIFO page replacement algorithm:

(a) we remove the oldest page loaded into the RAM

(b) delete the page that will not be used for the longest time
(c) delete the page that has not been used for the longest time

(d) we remove the most frequently used page



21. Paging: in the so-called the zonal model of the "zone" of the process is:

(a) a set of process pages in simultaneous use 
(b) a collection of pages in associative memory

(c) the content of the page table

(d) collection of empty frames



22. The WAIT and SIGNALING operations on the S semaphore must be:

(a) written in machine language

(b) indivisible
(c) precompiled

(d) they do not have to



23. Planning for disk access using the SSTF method is characterized by the following:

(a) sudden and frequent head deflections occur

(b) it is possible to "starve" some orders
(c) the head moves only towards the increasing number paths

(d) the temperature of the disk is constant



24. Security: identification of entities is:

(a) access control

(b) authorization
(c) audit

(d) decompactification



25. Restriction of access to the internet based on the degree of confidentiality of information stored by the object is:

(a) Mandatory Access Control

(b) Audit

(c) Discretionary Access Control®
(d) Authorization



26. For MISD class machines (in accordance with the so-called Flynn taxonomy) we include:

(a) a single-processor PC

(b) Multikomputer

(c) a matrix processor

(d) machines of this class are not constructed



27. For a clock whose indications differ from the absolute time by a maximum of 2 seconds. for every 10 seconds the value of the maximum deviation factor β will be:

(a) less than zero

(b) exactly 0.2
(c) exactly 1.2

(d) exactly 5



28. In the tyrant's algorithm, the process starting the election sends a message to:

(a) all processes

(b) processes with higher numbers
(c) processes with lower numbers

(d) time server



29. 'Coherence of transactions' means that the transaction:

(a) may not violate system invariants
(b) can not be canceled upon completion

(c) it is carried out wholly or not at all

(d) it is not possible to nest transactions



30. In systems with multithreaded processes, process elements include:

(a) semaphores, open files, address space
(b) list of requested resources

(c) stack, registers, instruction counter

(d) status, global variables, stack, open files



31. Consider two service systems: 1. A pool of N identical processors with one common queue of processes 2. N identical processors, each of which has its own process queue. For the same test task sequence in both cases, the average process time in the second system will be theoretically:

(a) the same

(b) n times greater
(c) n / 2 times bigger

(d) n times smaller



32. The method of processor allocation by means of a deterministic algorithm based on the theoretical graph is to allocate:

(a) guaranteeing equal participation of users in computing power

(b) minimizing the waiting time

(c) minimizing network traffic
(d) not requiring central management



33. File-sharing semantics, in which the principle of "changes to an open file are only visible when it is closed" is called:

(a) session semantics
(b) Unix semantics

(c) the semantics of old files

(d) harvesting semantics



34. Memory in which access to synchronizing variables is consistent sequentially is:

(a) consistent strictly

(b) consistent sequentially

(c) cohesive

(d) consistent weakness


35. The EDF algorithm will select the read request for the disk block:

(a) with a minimum address

(b) about the next time limit 
(c) not requiring head movement

(d) feasible in the shortest possible time



36. When paging, external fragmentation:

(a) occurs for a large page size

(b) occurs for a small page size

(c) results from the discontinuity of the address space of the frames

(d) does not occur



37. Who is the author of the koala photo?

(a) Borzo
(b) Prof. meme

(c) Gavro

(d) Rataj



38. In a distributed system, the maximum deviation factor for each of the clocks is β. It is therefore known that after the time t from synchronization, the maximum difference between their indications will be at most:

(a) βt

(b) 2β

(c) 2βt
(d) β / t



39. What is the pre-register register for?

(a) to write data to the disk

(b) to handle transactions
(c) to create threads

(d) for the allocation of frames



40. File division semantics, in which the reading from a file returns the most recently saved value:

(a) semantics of permanent files
(b) session semantics

(c) transactional semantics

(d) avoidance semantics